# NodeLog

## NodeLog Overview

The `NodeLog` class is responsible for managing all logging operations in the system. It determines what should be logged and how the information should be interpreted. For each log passed through the `EventEmitter`, the `process` function is called with a `LogEntry` to apply appropriate logic for the log.

## Singleton Pattern

The `NodeLog` class uses a singleton pattern to ensure that there is only one instance of the logger throughout the application. The `log()` function returns this single instance, maintaining consistent handling of logs across different parts of the system.

## Managing Observers

The `NodeLog` can have multiple observers that are notified for each log entry. Any class that implements the `LogObserver` interface can be added as an observer, providing a flexible way to handle logs.

### Observer Functions

- `addObserver(observer: LogObserver)`: Adds an observer to receive log updates.
- `removeObserver(observer: LogObserver)`: Removes an observer.
- `notifyObservers(log: NodeLogEntry)`: Notifies all observers of a new log entry.

## LogEntry and LogObserver Interfaces

- **LogObserver**: Defines an `update(log: NodeLogEntry)` function that any class implementing this interface can use to receive log updates.
- **NodeLogEntry**: Represents a log entry, containing properties such as `log`, `method`, `type`, `timestamp`, `job`, and optionally `payload` and `pending`.

## Log Entry Types

Logs are categorized into different types, each representing a different kind of operation or status:

- **Success**: Represents successful operations.
- **Error**: Logs errors encountered during operations.
- **Info**: Provides general information about the state of operations.
- **Process**: Indicates the start of a process.
- **Stop**: Signals the end of an operation.
- **Update**: Logs status updates.
- **Process-bar**: Represents progress bar logs.

## Log Processing

The `process(data: LogEntry)` function is the main point where logs are processed. Based on the `class` and `method` properties of the `data` object, different handler functions are called to create a `NodeLogEntry`.

To add new logging functionality, you can add logic to the `process` function. For instance:

```tsx
class MyClass {
  constructor() {}

  myFunction() {}
}

private process(data: LogEntry) {
  // ... existing logic

  if (data.class === 'MyClass' && data.method === 'myFunction') {
    if (data.type === 'call') {
      // log "myFunction has been called"
    }

    if (data.type === 'return') {
      // log "myFunction ran successfully"
    }

    if (data.type === 'error') {
      // log "myFunction failed"
    }
  }
}

```

## Extending the NodeLog Class

To extend the functionality of the `NodeLog` class:

- **Add New Handlers**: Create a new handler function within `NodeLog` to handle log events from a new class.
- **Add Observers**: Implement the `LogObserver` interface for new components that need to receive log events and add them using `addObserver()`.
- **Modify Log Structure**: Update the `NodeLogEntry` interface and the respective handler functions if more information needs to be included in the logs.

## Using the NodeLog Class

Here’s how to use the `NodeLog` class in your code:

```jsx
const logger = log();
logger.addObserver({
  update(log) {
	    console.log(`Received log entry:
				Method: ${log.method}
				Class: ${log.class}
				Type: ${log.type}
				Timestamp: ${new Date(log.timestamp).toLocaleString()}
				Log Message: ${log.log}`
			);
		},
});

// Emitting a log event for container orchestration
logEmitter.emit('log', {
  class: 'DockerContainerOrchestration',
  method: 'runContainer',
  type: 'call',
  arguments: [{ Image: 'nginx' }],
});
```

In this example, we add an observer to the logger and emit a log event. The observer is notified with the log details.

As of now we have two Observers for the Node Log

[ConsoleLogger](NodeLog%2014ba27e6386580f2a178e5ec06bb9e41/ConsoleLogger%2014ba27e6386580858477d4e673ae2f4b.md)

[LogStreamer](NodeLog%2014ba27e6386580f2a178e5ec06bb9e41/LogStreamer%2014ba27e6386580f09267d86e56c40f4d.md)